 Developing The Imagination and Logical Thinking of Visually Impaired Pupils
                 Through Sound-Based Puzzles and Riddles
                                                              Rafal Wilinski1 and Dariusz Mikulowski1
                                                      1
                                                        University of Siedlce, Faculty of Exact and Natural Sciences



Motivation and Background
                                                                                                 The next one is an audio puzzle solving module. The user can choose one of several
Logic games like puzzles and riddles are very popular among users. However, blind people
                                                                                                 sets of puzzles that are grouped according to the level of diﬀiculty.
have limited access to this type of entertainment due to a lack of accessibility.
                                                                                                 The easiest level is one in which the user receives a description and an indication of place
The project aimed to create a universal application that develops the logical thinking and
                                                                                                 where he should arrange each piece.
imagination of visually impaired students through interactive riddles and audio-supported
                                                                                                 E.g, a shadow of a tree and a meadow. Put it on lower right corner.
puzzles. The application enables joint play for sighted and blind people, thus supporting
                                                                                                 More diﬀicult levels have no descriptions about their correct place in the puzzle.
the integration and development of their cognitive competencies.

Related Works
Numerous studies have confirmed the positive impact of educational games on developing
cognitive skills and creativity.
(Barnabé et al. 2023) demonstrated that system dynamics-based games can significantly
enhance learners’ critical thinking and project management competencies.
Similarly, (Mercier et al. 2024) found that frequent engagement with board games
correlates with higher workplace creativity and a stronger creative self-concept.
In another study, (Chukusol et al. 2024) introduced a challenge-based hybrid learning                                                  Figure 4: Selecting puzzle to solve
model using virtual board games, which proved effective in fostering research creativity and     While solving the puzzle, the player moves around the board using the arrow keys and
critical thinking among students.                                                                replaces pieces of puzzles with the enter key.
For visually impaired users, platforms like RS Games and Crazy Party Games,                      The descriptions help in the arrangement of elements and their view are read on a regular
(Pragma, n.d.) offer sound-based games without graphical user interfaces, focusing solely        basis.
on audio navigation.
Although accessible for blind users, these games often exclude sighted users who might
wish to play collaboratively.
As (Lewis n.d.) highlights, many audio games lack a GUI, making them less inclusive.
In contrast, the application presented in our work (Wilinski R. 2025) combines a sound
interface with a universally designed graphical layout, enabling joint gameplay and learning
experiences for blind, visually impaired, and sighted users.

Audio Puzzle Game - How it Works?                                                                             Figure 5: Solving the puzzle with forest picture, with audio description.
A game was implemented as a web application in Angular with a database in Google Cloud.          After solving the puzzle, the result is presented to the user.
It was created in accordance with the ARIA standard. Due to this, it is fully compatible
with screen readers.




                                                                                                                                       Figure 6: Results of solved puzzles

                          Figure 1: Main screen of the puzzle game.                              Results
The game consists of two modules.                                                                The pilot version of the game has been tested by three blind users.
The first one is the riddle solving module where the user can solve logical text riddles         A positive reception was obtained, especially for the feature of description of the puzzle
that have been grouped into several sets.                                                        elements and intuitive navigation across the puzzle game.
                                                                                                 Users have reported a desire to expand the application with new sets of puzzles and the
                                                                                                 ability to add their puzzles after logging in.
                                                                                                 The modernization and development of the application are planned in these directions.

                                                                                                 Conclusions
                                                                                                 The proposed solution is an example of an inclusive approach to educational games,
                                                                                                 combining a graphic and an audio interface. The application develops spatial imagination
                                                                                                 and logical thinking while entertaining.
                                                                                                 Game investments among more users and gathering their opinions are planned as well as an
                                   Figure 2: Solving riddles                                     extension of the content and functionality of the application as users suggested.
After solving the whole set of riddles, the player is notified of the result of his fun.
                                                                                                 References
                                                                                                 Barnabé, F., Armenia, S., Nazir, S., Pompei, A., 2023. Critical thinking skills enhancement through system dynamics-based
                                                                                                 games: Insights from the project management board game project. Syst. 11, 554.
                                                                                                 Chukusol, C., Nilsook, P., Wannapiroon, P., (2024). Challenge-based hybrid learning model using virtual board game
                                                                                                 platforms. International Education Studies.
                                                                                                 Games, R., n.d. RS games. Available at: https://rsgames.org/ (last access 16 01 2025).
                                                                                                 Lewis, V., n.d. Audio games for blind and low vision gamers. Available at:
                                                                                                 https://veroniiiica.com/audio-games-for-blind-low-vision-gamers/ (Last access 16 01 2025).
                                                                                                 Mercier M., Bourgeois-Bougrine S., and Lubart T., Board games and creativity: Playfulness as a mediator’, Simulation &
                                                                                                 Gaming, 2024. doi: 10.1177/10468781241289512
                                                                                                 Pragma, P., n.d. Crazy party. Available at: http://pragmapragma.free.fr/crazy-party/en/index.php (last access 16 01 2025).
                                                                                                 Wilinski, R. W. (2025) ”Projekt i realizacja udźwiękowionej gry puzzle przystosowanej dla użytkowników niewidomych” (in
                               Figure 3: Results of riddle game                                  Polish). Engineering thesis, University of Siedlce, Poland.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                .   .   .     . . . .     . . . .     . . . .       .   .       .   .   .
                                                                                                                                                                                                            .   .   .       . . . .     . . . .     . . . .     .   .       .   .   .




                         EdMedia 2025, Barcelona, May 19–23                                    rw86221@stud.uws.edu.pl, dariusz.mikulowski@uws.edu.pl
